# *NuSTAR* Solar Python Repo

## Overview:

**This is currently work in progress. If you encounter issues, let us know.**

This repo contains scripts for converting *NuSTAR* solar observations to usable
heliocentric coordinates.

This branch uses python-based code rather than IDL scripts so that we can take advantage
of the wonderful open source developments in astropy and sunpy.

All python scripts shown here are written for python 3.5.

Library Requirements (at minimum, and with their dependencies):
  astopy
  numpy
  sunpy
  wget

We recommend using [Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads) for installation
of astropy/numpy/everything else via conda.

See the [sunpy documenation](http://sunpy.org) for details of how to install sunpy
via conda.

See Iain Hannah's overview figures for the solar observations (made using SSWIDL)
[here](http://ianan.github.io/nsigh_all/).

Interested in helping out or adding code? Feedback is great, report any problems via 
`issues`_ page.

If you have code you might want to contribute, get in touch with me to join the Slack
group and/or issue a pull request.

## Contents: 

### Installation:

#### python setup via conda

If you already have a python-3.5 environment that includes astropy and sunpy then you can
skip down to the Install nustar_pysolar step below.

##### If you don't already have a python environment with astropy and sunpy, do the following:

* Install miniconda via [this page](https://conda.io/docs/install/quick.html).

This will install a new python installation on your system so that you don't have
to worry about overwriting or conflicting with any other existing python builds.

* From the command prompt, issue the following conda commands to make sure that
we're using python 3-5 and that we have the conda-forge channel installed (for sunpy):

> `conda install python=3.5`
> `conda config --add channels conda-forge`

#### Install nustar_pysolar

##### Clone the project from github:
> `git clone https://github.com/NuSTAR/nustar_pysolar.git`

##### Install dependencies:

From the nustar_pysolar directory, issue the following conda command to install the
modules that we'll need:

> `conda install --yes --file requirements.txt`

Note that this may take a few minutes to complete.

##### Install nustar_pysolar:

> `python setup.py install`

##### Build the documentation:

> `sphinx-build docs/ docs/_build`

...there is now an autogenerated webpage at nustar_pysolar/docs/\_build/index.html that
describes nustar\_pysolar.


### Notebooks

We've provided several jupyter notebooks that demonstrates how to convert the *NuSTAR*
solar data into heliocentric coordinates and data formats that align with Sunpy.

To install jupyter, use conda:

> `conda install jupyter`

Then from the command line, do:

> `jupyter notebook`

This will open a page in your webbrowser that shows the current file structure. Navigate
to the `notebooks` directory and open one of the files in an ".ipynb" suffix.

This series of notebooks should result in you have a sunpy-style map object that can
then be combined with other sunpy objects (AIA, etc) for making pretty pictures.

The proper order is:

1. [Observation Report](notebooks/Observation_Report.ipynb)
2. [Convert Example](notebooks/Convert_Example.ipynb)
3. [Map Example](notebooks/Map_Example.ipynb)

We also have provided an example notebook for how to plan a *NuSTAR* solar observation

1. [Planning exmaple](notebooks/Planning_Example.ipynb)

## How to get *NuSTAR* solar data

You can search the [*NuSTAR* table](https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/db-perl/W3Browse/w3table.pl?tablehead=name%3Dnumaster&Action=More+Options) at the HEASARC, using SOL in the obs_type search bar to locate all of the *NuSTAR* solar observations. Any data that are public can be downloaded and reprocessed for solar work.

If you have data that you'd like to see that aren't public let, let me know.





